**Q1. What is squashfs file system?**

Squashfs is a compressed read-only file system for Linux. Squashfs compresses files, inodes and directories, and supports block sizes from 4 KiB up to 1 MiB for greater compression. Several compression algorithms are supported. Squashfs is also the name of free software, licensed under the GPL, for accessing Squashfs filesystems.

**Q2. What are Linux Signals?**
A signal is an event generated by the UNIX and Linux systems in response to some condition. Upon receipt of a signal, a process may take action.

A signal is just like an interrupt; when it is generated at the user level, a call is made to the kernel of the OS, which then acts accordingly.

**There are two types of signals:**

`Maskable:` signals which can be changed or ignored by the user (e.g., Ctrl+C).

`Non-Maskable:` signals which cannot be changed or ignored by the user. These typically occur when the user is signaled for non-recoverable hardware errors.

**Q3. Purpose of hidden files?**

Hidden files are those files which doea not appear on the screen to user when listing the files. User has to on **Show Hidden File Option** to see those hidden files. A hidden file is primarily used to help prevent important data from being accidentally deleted.

**Q4. How ext4 fs is faster?**

Ext4 file system is faster because 


**Q5. What is swap & swap memory?**

`Swap` Swap is a space on a disk that is used when the amount of physical RAM memory is full. When a Linux system runs out of RAM, inactive pages are moved from the RAM to the swap space.

`Swap memory` Swap memory or swap space is the on-disk component of the virtual memory system. It is pre-configured as a swap partition or a swap file when Linux is first installed, but can also be added later.

**Q6. how to mount a file system?**

To mount a file system, we use the mount command. We use the mount command with the file system and the mount point. The mount point becomes the root directory for the mounted file system.

**Q7. How to check which process running on which port?**

`netstat -ano -p tcp`

**Q8. what is unix time sharing?**

 Unix allows users to run different programs simultaneously. Unix is  multitasking and multiprogramming.Hence it is time sharing OS.
 
 **Q9. What are control groups?**
 
 Cgroup or control group is one of the type of namespaces in linux kernal. It controls that which process can consume what amount of resources. Resources like RAM, CPU etc.
 
 **Q10. Difference between sbin & usr/sbin ?**
 
 Sbin contains the binaries of commands which require root priviledges. The /sbin directory under root directory is available for all the users and are used when a system is booted and the usr partition is not mounted.

usr/sbin contains binary files for the commands that requires root priviledges and which are user specific.

**Q11. Examples of awk, sed, grep?**

`AWK` awk command is a scripting language used to manipulate data & generating reports. It requires no compiling and allows user to use **variables, String function, numeric function, logical operator.**


